 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

 MICRONESIA (FEDERAL 
STATES OF) 

 



Micronesia Flag 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 112 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 27.80% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013) 



 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Micronesia does not have officially recognized national legislations on cybercrime. 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Micronesia does not have officially recognised regulations and compliance requirements on cybersecurity. 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Micronesia does not have an officially recognized National CIRT. 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

Micronesia does not have officially recognized national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for 
implementing internationally recognized cybersecurity standards. 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

Micronesia does not have any officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for the 
certification and accreditation of national agencies and public sector professionals. 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Micronesia has an officially recognized national cybersecurity strategy (FSM National ICT and Telecommunication 
Policy (2012). 

 

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

Micronesia does not have a national governance roadmap for cybersecurity. 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

The Division of Communication under the Department of Transportation, Communication and Infrastructure is the 
officially recognized agency responsible for implementing a national cybersecurity strategy, policy and roadmap. 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

Micronesia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking exercises or referential 
used to measure cybersecurity development. 

 

 

 

 


1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

Micronesia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific research and development (R&D) 
programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or 
the public sector. 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

Micronesia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific educational and professional training 
programs for raising awareness with the general public, promoting cybersecurity courses in higher education and 
promoting certification of professionals in either the public or the private sectors. However two workshops were 
conducted by ITU under ICB4PAC. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

Micronesia does not have any public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized certification 
programs in cybersecurity. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

Micronesia does not have any certified government and public sector agencies certified under internationally 
recognized standards in cybersecurity. 

 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

Micronesia does not have officially recognized partnerships to facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across 
borders or with other nation states. 

 

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

Micronesia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity 
assets within the public sector. 

 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

Micronesia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity 
assets within the public and private sector. 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Micronesia is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services. 

Micronesia also takes part in the Asia Pacific CIRT cybersecurity forums. Micronesia is among the beneficiary 
countries of the EU/ITU co-funded project “Capacity Building and ICT Policy, Regulatory and Legislative Frameworks 
Support for Pacific Island Countries” (ICB4PAC). 

Micronesia also participated in several workshops/trainings provided by ITU and APT. 

 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




Micronesia does not have specific legislation on child online protection. 

 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Micronesia has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child. 

 


Micronesia has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the Optional Protocol to The 
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. 

 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




Micronesia does not have an officially recognized agency that offers institutional support on child online protection. 

 

 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




Micronesia does not have an officially recognized agency that offers an avenue for the reporting of incidents related 
to child online protection. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 12th August 2014 

 


