 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

MONGOLIA 

 



http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4c/Flag_of_Mongolia.svg/125px-Flag_of_Mongolia.svg.png
http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4c/Flag_of_Mongolia.svg/125px-Flag_of_Mongolia.svg.png 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 2 844 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 17.70% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013) 

 

 



 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






There is a draft legislation on cybercrime “Draft of Cyber Security ACT 2013” approved by the joint decree of the 
Minister of Justice and Internal Affairs and Chairman of the General Intelligence Authority. 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Within the scope of the implementation of Government Resolution no. 312 of the year 2011 on “Some measures to 
ensure state information security”, the risk assessment of information security for the state central organizations 
was conducted in 2012. Based on the assessment report, the preparation to organize trainings among the civil 
servants on how to prevent risks in the future is now going on. 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Mongolia is currently in the process of creating the National CIRT (MNCIRT). 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

Mongolia has officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for implementing 
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards through the following instruments: 

 

- ISO/IEC 2700x (5 standards) -MNS ISO/IES 13335-1:2009 

-MNS ISO/IES 17799:2007 -MNS 5969:2009 IT & information security techniques and risk management 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

 

According to Government Decree no. 312 of the 9 November 2011, the State Communication Office under the 
auspices of the General Intelligence Authority was reorganized into the Office of Cyber Security to ensure the 
information security for state organizations and prevent cyber attacks. Also, the Department for Combating 
Cybercrime was established to combat cybercrime and cyber terrorism at the Criminal Police Office of the General 
Police Authority on July 2011. 

The National Data Center operates the Department for Information Security, Encryption and Protection. 

 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Mongolia is in the process of developing a national cybersecurity strategy. In 2010, the national programme on 
“Ensuring Information Security” was approved. The programme is to be implemented from 2010 to 2015. 

 


1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

Mongolia has an officially recognized national governance roadmap for cybersecurity that can be found in its 
national program in information security action plan. 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

The National Cybersecurity Center is the officially recognized agency responsible for implementing a national 
cybersecurity strategy, policy and roadmap in Mongolia. 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

Mongolia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking exercises or referential 
used to measure cybersecurity development. 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

Mongolia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific research and development (R&D) 
programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or 
the public sector. 

 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

The National Program of Information Security plan provides educational and professional training programs for 
raising awareness with the general public, promoting cybersecurity courses in higher education and promoting 
certification of professionals in either the public or the private sectors. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

Mongolia does not have any public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized certification 
programs in cybersecurity. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

Mongolia does not have any certified government and public sector agencies certified under internationally 
recognized standards in cybersecurity. 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

Mongolia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific partnerships for sharing cybersecurity 
assets across borders with other nation states. 

 

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

Mongolia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity 
assets within the public sector. 

 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

Mongolia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity 
assets within the public and private sector. 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Mongolia is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services. Mongolia also 
participated in cybersecurity activities of APT cybersecurity forums. 

 

 

 

 


2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

 

Please note that in Mongolia a child is a person under 16 

 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




- Article 123 of the Criminal Code – does not criminalize simple possession. 

 

 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Mongolia has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. 

 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




Mongolia does not have any officially recognized agency that offers institutional support on child online protection. 

 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




Mongolia does not have an officially recognized agency that offers an avenue for the reporting of incidents related to 
child online protection. 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 5th October 2014 

 


