 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

 TOGO 

 



http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/68/Flag_of_Togo.svg/125px-Flag_of_Togo.svg.png
http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/68/Flag_of_Togo.svg/125px-Flag_of_Togo.svg.png 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 6 283 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 4.50% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013) 



 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Togo does not have specific legislation on cybercrime. 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Togo does not have specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity. 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Togo does not have an officially recognized national CIRT. 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

Togo does not have officially recognized national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for implementing 
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards. 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

Togo does not have any officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for the 
certification and accreditation of national agencies and public sector professionals. 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Togo does not have an officially recognized national cybersecurity strategy. 

 

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

Togo does not have a national governance roadmap for cybersecurity. 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

The Electronic Communication Regulator is the officially recognized agency responsible for implementing a national 
cybersecurity strategy, policy and roadmap. 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

Togo Electronic Communication Regulator has officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking 
exercises or referential used to measure cybersecurity development. Two studies have been made but the results 
are not yet published. 

 

 

 

 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 





 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

Togo does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific research and development (R&D) 
programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or 
the public sector. 

 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

Togo does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific educational and professional training 
programs for raising awareness with the general public, promoting cybersecurity courses in higher education and 
promoting certification of professionals in either the public or the private sectors. However there are a lot of 
professional certification centers in the field of security and cybersecurity. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

Togo does not have the exact number of public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized 
certification programs in cybersecurity. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

Togo does not have any certified government and public sector agencies certified under internationally recognized 
standards in cybersecurity. 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

Togo does not have officially recognized partnerships to facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across borders or 
with other nation states. 

 

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

Togo does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets 
within the public sector. 

 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

Togo does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets 
within the public and private sector. 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Togo is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services. Togo is among the 
beneficiaries of the EU/ITU co-funded project ¡°Support for Harmonization of the ICT Policies in Sub-Sahara Africa¡± 
(HIPSSA). 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instruments: 

Article 89* of the Criminal Code ¨C does not mention explicitly child pornography 

Article 392 of the Children¡¯s Code of Togo 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Togo has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. 

Togo has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the Optional Protocol to The 
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. 

 


2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




Togo does not have an officially recognized agency that offers institutional support on child online protection. 

 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




Togo does not have an officially recognized agency that offers an avenue for the reporting of incidents related to 
child online protection. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 12th August 2014 


