 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

TUNISIA 

 



Flag of Tunisia.svg 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 10 705 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 
2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 43.80% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013) 

 

 



 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instrument: 

-Art.199 bis and 199ter of Tunisia Penal Law. 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Tunisia has officially recognized regulations regarding cybersecurity and compliance requirements 
through the following instruments: 

- Law n¡ã 2004-5, February 3, 2004, relative to computer security. 

- Decree n¡ã 1248 - 2004, May 25, 2004, setting the administrative, financial and operating procedures of 
the ANSI. 

- Decree n¡ã 1249 - 2004, May 25, 2004, on requirements and procedures for the certification of expert 
auditors in the field of computer security. 

- Decree n¡ã 1250 - 2004, May 25, 2004, on the institutional computer systems and networks subjected to 
the compulsory periodic Risk Assessment of computer security, and on the criteria relating to the nature 
and periodicity of the Risk Assessment and to procedures for monitoring the implementation of the 
recommendations made in the Risk Assessment report. 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Tunisia has an officially recognized National CIRT (TunCERT). 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

There is no information available concerning any officially approved national (and sector specific) 
cybersecurity frameworks for implementing internationally recognized cybersecurity standards. 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 


The National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property (INNORPI) is the leading certification 
body for Tunisia. Its objective is to undertake every action concerning standardization, the quality of 
products and services, metrology, industrial property protection and the maintaining of a central 
commercial register. 

 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Tunisia has an officially recognized national cybersecurity strategy. 

 

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

The national governance roadmap for cybersecurity in Tunisia is elaborated in the National Agency for 
Computer Security (ANSI). 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

The National Agency for Computer Security (ANSI) is the officially recognized agency responsible for 
implementing a national cybersecurity strategy, policy and roadmap in Tunisia. 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

The National Agency for Computer Security (ANSI) is responsible for the benchmarking and measuring 
cybersecurity development in Tunisia. 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

There is no available information concerning any officially recognized national or sector-specific 
research and development (R&D) programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best practices and 
guidelines to be applied in either the private or the public sector. 

 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

The National Agency for Computer Security (ANSI) is responsible for providing educational and 
professional training programs for raising awareness with the general public, promoting cybersecurity 
courses in higher education and promoting certification of professionals in either the public or the 
private sectors. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

Tunisia has numerous public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized certification 
programs in cybersecurity such as ISO270001, CEH, CISA, CISM and CISSP. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

There is no available information concerning any certified government and public sector agencies 
certified under internationally recognized standards in cybersecurity. 

 

 

 

 


 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

To facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across borders with other nation states Tunisia has officially 
recognized partnerships with the following organizations: 

- National Agency for Computer Security - FIRST 

- Honeypot Project - OIC-CERT -UNCTAD 

 

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

The Tunisian honeypot project ¡°Saher-HoneyNet¡± is an initiative launched by the Tunisian CERT, in order 
to mitigate threats related to malicious traffic and to improve the national cyberspace security by 
ensuring preventive and response measures to deal with malicious threats. It is the officially recognized 
program for sharing cybersecurity assets within the public sector. 

 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

The Tunisian honeypot project ¡°Saher-HoneyNet¡± is an initiative launched by the Tunisian CERT, in order 
to mitigate threats related to malicious traffic and to improve the national cyberspace security by 
ensuring preventive and response measures to deal with malicious threats. It is the officially recognized 
program for sharing cybersecurity assets within the private sector. 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Tunisia is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiatives and has access to relevant cybersecurity services. 
Tunisia participated in several cybersecurity activities with the following organizations/activities: 

- National Agency for Computer Security -Honeypot Project 

- Shadowserver - ArborNetworks 

 

 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




Specific legislation on child protection has been enacted through the following instrument: 

- Articles 226, 226bis and 233-235 of the Criminal Code. 

 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Tunisia has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child. 

Tunisia has signed and ratified, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, the Optional 
Protocol to The Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution 
and Child Pornography. 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 





Tunisia Computer Emergency Response Team (TUN CERT (*)) provides information on tools for parental 
control. 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




TUN CERT makes available the number (+216) 71 843 200 or (+216)71 846 020 - ext. 119 and the email 
address incident@ansi.tn to report a computer incident. 

 

 

 

 

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-
D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 23th October 2014 

 

 


