 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

UGANDA 

 



http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4e/Flag_of_Uganda.svg/900px-Flag_of_Uganda.svg.png 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 36 621 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 16.20% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, December 2012) 



 

 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Specific legislation pertaining to cybercrime is mandated through the following legal instrument: 

- Electronic Transaction Act - Electronic Transactions Regulations 

- Computer Misuse Act - Penal Code Act. 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Specific legislation and regulation to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments: 

- National Information Technology Authority of Uganda - NITA-U Act 

- Access to Information Act - Electronic Signatures Act. 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Uganda has two national CIRTs CERT-UG operating under the National Information Technology Authority of Uganda 
(NITA-U) and ugCERT operating under the Uganda Communications Commission. 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

There is no available information concerning any officially recognized national (and sector specific) cybersecurity 
frameworks for implementing internationally recognized cybersecurity standards. 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

There is no available information concerning any officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity 
frameworks for the certification and accreditation of national agencies and public sector professionals. 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Uganda has an officially recognized national cybersecurity strategy since 2011 (National Information Security 
Strategy 2011). The NITA-U has also developed a National Information Security Framework (NISF). 

 

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

The Information Security Roadmap and the CERT-UG Roadmap provide national governance roadmaps for 
cybersecurity in Uganda. 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

The Ministry of Information and Communication Technology and the National Information Technology Authority of 
Uganda are the officially recognized agencies responsible for implementing a national cybersecurity strategy, policy 
and roadmap. 


1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

There is no available information regarding any officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking 
exercises or referential used to measure cybersecurity development. 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

There is no available information regarding any officially recognized national or sector-specific research and 
development (R&D) programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in 
either the private or the public sector. 

 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

The National Information Security Framework Validation Workshop provides sector-specific educational and 
professional training programs for raising awareness with the general public, promoting cybersecurity courses in 
higher education and promoting certification of professionals in either the public or the private sectors. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

Uganda does not have the exact number of public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized 
certification programs in cybersecurity. However there are at least three within the CERT-UG. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

The national CIRT (CERT-UG) is the only public sector agency certified under internationally recognized standards in 
cybersecurity. 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

Uganda does not have any officially recognized partnerships to facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across 
borders or with other nation states. 

 

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

Uganda does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets 
within the public sector. 

 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

Uganda does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets 
within the public and private sector. 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Uganda is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services. 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION AND STRATEGY 




Specific legislation on child protection has been enacted through the following instruments: 

- Computer Misuse Act, 2011. 

- Section 148 of the Criminal Code but does not mention explicitly pornography. 

- The Draft of the Nation Information Security Strategy deals with emerging security risks, but has no specific 
provisions for child online protection. 

 


2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Uganda has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. 

Uganda has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the Optional Protocol to The 
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. 

 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




Uganda does not have any officially recognized agency that offers institutional support to child online protection. 

 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




Uganda CERT (UgCERT) provides an online form to report incidents. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 22th January 2015 

 

 

 


